We all have an important reason to act safely.
Act 1728 reads,
for by him we have life and move and exist.
Since life is such a precious gift from Jehovah,
safety and the sanctity of life must be a priority in our daily lives.
Our organization has a goal of zero accidents
and not just on construction projects,
being safety conscious is a lifestyle that affects all we do,
whether we're at home on the road or on theocratic projects.
Our attitude towards safety is really a reflection of our spirituality
and our love for Jehovah and the brothers and sisters.
Let's see a few dramatizations from around the world
to help us see how we can all be more safety conscious.
That day changed everything.
In that moment, I realized that my actions could have injured someone.
I could even have become blood guilty.
My problem was overconfidence.
I never had a car accident and I thought it could never happen to me.
But just a second of distracted driving can kill.
I meditated on Psalm 36.9.
With you is a source of life.
By your light, we can see light.
My love for Jehovah, the source of life,
now affects how I drive and even my approach to other activities.
For example, I love sports,
but I stop playing those with a high potential for serious injury
and even relatively safe ones.
I'm committed to enjoying in the safest way possible.
I think Jehovah every day I'm still alive.
It was such a close call.
It was a street I've walked across hundreds of times.
No one has ever been hurt there before, so I felt safe.
Besides, I was preoccupied with what I had to do that day.
I didn't see the car until I heard this screeching tires.
I wish I hadn't taken this to become more safety conscious.
But now we continually train our children to stop, think,
and evaluate even familiar surroundings before proceeding.
Acting safely is one way we showed Jehovah how much we appreciate life.
Whether at home or elsewhere, being safe has become a lifestyle for us.
As a body of elders, we take Proverbs 22 verse 3 seriously.
The shrewd one sees the danger and conceals himself,
but that inexperience keeps right on going and suffer the consequences.
If we take short cut or permit something unsafe and an accident happens,
we bear a measure of responsibility of the results.
We love Jehovah and our brothers and sisters too much to allow that.
With good direction and training from the LDC maintenance training team,
we've learned to apply the principle of Proverbs 22 verse 3.
We identify potential risks before we start working and make a plan to complete it safely.
We always assign the right person to a task,
a way of everyone's knowledge, limitations, and abilities.
And while it's wonderful to have young ones with us,
we make sure they are always supervised and work with either their parents
or another responsible person.
Before a convention, everyone's excited to help set up and time is short,
but we never rush work at the expensive safety.
Again, planning ahead is key.
Even if we've never been injured and nothing happens this time,
if we take chances, what example are we setting?
When we take our time, plan ahead, and focus on the task at hand,
we follow the advice of Proverbs 3, 21 and 23.
Safeguard practical wisdom and thinking ability.
Then you will walk on your way in safety.
And this principle of walking on your way in safety doesn't end when the convention begins.
Often we're excited to see our friends,
and we forget to pay attention to where we're physically walking.
We need to use extra caution in locations like high traffic areas,
stairs, escalators, parking lots, our accommodations,
and other areas that could have potential trip hazards.
Even our choice of shoes could pose a risk.
Every year high heel shoes cause a number of serious accidents.
In our personal study, we realize there's a direct link between
identifying spiritual dangers and physical ones.
Wanting to always give Jehovah our best motivates us to stop and analyze situations
before starting a task.
I've learned that when evaluating possible hazards,
we should be based on love for Jehovah and others.
This helps me to always choose the safe way,
even if it's more time consuming or expensive.
There is a key phrase from our training that goes,
if we see something unsafe, say something immediately.
This is in line with the principle of Philippians 2.4 that says,
as you look out not only for your own interests,
but also for the interests of others.
By speaking up and helping one see potential risks,
we can prevent accidents.
Life is a gift from Jehovah.
And I want to train my children to value it.
The smallest actions can save lives.
My conscience is clean now.
Understanding that making safety a priority is an expression of my love for Jehovah
and my brothers and sisters.
I'm happier now.
Could it be that some of our actions reveal a lack of appreciation for the gift of life?
As was mentioned, safety is part of being spiritual people.
That understanding motivates us to develop safer routines and ways of doing things.
Our minds will be focused on keeping us safe by identifying
risk and adjusting how we do things.
This way we stay safe by eliminating or controlling the risks.
The world focuses on speed and cutting corners to get things done.
In contrast, we want our theocratic and personal activities
to show that safety is a priority.
This can be accomplished if we view safety as a reflection of our love for Jehovah
and his precious gift of life.